docs/docs/en/guide/deploy.mdx, before:

# Rin Deployment Guide

This document will guide you through deploying the Rin blog system to Cloudflare from scratch.

## Prerequisites

- A GitHub account
- A Cloudflare account (free tier is sufficient)
- Approximately 10-15 minutes of your time

## Deployment Steps

### Step 1: Fork the Repository

1. Visit the [Rin GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Bad3r/Rin)
2. Click the **"Fork"** button in the top right corner
   ![1000000657](https://github.com/OXeu/Rin/assets/36541432/df3607ca-a8a9-49b8-92ce-6b348afeb13f)
3. Select your personal account, keep the default settings, and click **"Create fork"**

### Obtaining Account ID and API Token

Refer to https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/ci-cd/ to configure the Cloudflare login environment variables required for GitHub Actions.

**Account ID**: Click on any domain you have bound. After entering, you can find the `Account ID` on the right side (you need to scroll down a bit).

**Creating an API Token**: Click your `Profile` icon in the top right > `My Profile` > `API Tokens` > `Create Token`, and select the `Edit Cloudflare Workers` template:
![1000000663](/cloudflare-api-key-en.png)

Save the token after creation.

### Step 2: Configure GitHub Secrets

1. On your forked repository page, click the **"Settings"** tab
2. In the left menu, expand **"Secrets and variables"** and select **"Actions"**
3. Click the **"New repository secret"** button to add the following secrets:

#### Required Secrets

| Secret Name | Value | Description |
|-------------|-------|-------------|
| `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN` | `ThEApiKeyIsRaNdomStR1ngNearly40CharsLong` | Cloudflare API Token |
| `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` | `0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef` | Cloudflare Account ID |
| `JWT_SECRET` | Any random string | JWT signing key |

> **Tip**: `JWT_SECRET` can be any random string of any length, for example: `MySecretKey123!@#`

#### Login Configuration Secrets

Rin currently supports username/password login and GitHub OAuth login. You can choose one or configure both.

**Username/Password Login (Recommended)**

| Secret Name | Value | Description |
|-------------|-------|-------------|
| `ADMIN_USERNAME` | Your desired username | Login username |
| `ADMIN_PASSWORD` | Your desired password | Login password |

**GitHub OAuth Login (Optional)**

If you want to use your GitHub account to log in, please refer to the [Advanced Configuration](#github-oauth-configuration) section to add OAuth configuration.

> **Tip**: Username/password login and GitHub OAuth login can be enabled simultaneously. Users can freely choose their preferred login method on the login page.

### Step 3: Trigger Deployment

1. Go to the **"Actions"** tab in your repository
2. Select the **"Deploy"** workflow on the left
3. Click the **"Run workflow"** button
4. Keep the default branch (main) and click **"Run workflow"**

The deployment process takes approximately 3-5 minutes. You can view the deployment progress on the Actions page.

> **Tip**: The deployment script will automatically configure frontend environment variables; no manual configuration is needed. You can customize the site name, description, etc., in GitHub Variables (optional).

### Step 4: Access Your Blog

After deployment is complete, you can access your blog through the following addresses:

- **Frontend**: `https://rin-client.pages.dev` (or the name you set in `PAGES_NAME`)
- **Backend API**: `https://rin-server.your-account-id.workers.dev`

### Step 5: First Login

1. Visit the frontend page
2. Click the login icon in the top right corner
3. Log in using the `ADMIN_USERNAME` and `ADMIN_PASSWORD` you set in Secrets
4. After logging in, click your avatar to enter the **Profile** page, where you can modify your nickname and upload an avatar

## Publishing Your First Post

1. After logging in, click the **"Write"** button in the top right corner
2. Fill in the article title and content
3. Click the **"Publish"** button

🎉 Congratulations! Your Rin blog has been successfully deployed and your first post has been published!

---

## Advanced Configuration

### Custom Domain

1. Log in to the Cloudflare Dashboard
2. Go to **Pages** > Your Project > **Custom Domains**
3. Follow the prompts to add your domain

### Image Storage Configuration

Rin supports two storage methods: **Cloudflare R2** (recommended) or **S3-compatible storage**.

#### Using Cloudflare R2 (Recommended)

If no S3 environment variables are configured, the deployment script will automatically attempt to use Cloudflare R2. You only need to set the following in GitHub Variables:

| Variable Name | Description | Example |
|--------------|-------------|---------|
| `R2_BUCKET_NAME` | R2 bucket name | `my-blog-images` |

The deployment script will automatically construct the R2 endpoint and access host. If you want to use a custom domain for images, you can additionally set:

| Variable Name | Description | Example |
|--------------|-------------|---------|
| `S3_ACCESS_HOST` | Image access domain (optional) | `https://images.myblog.com` |

#### Using S3-Compatible Storage

If you need to use other S3-compatible storage (such as AWS S3, MinIO, etc.), you need to fully configure the following Secrets:

| Secret Name | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `S3_ENDPOINT` | S3 endpoint address |
| `S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID` | Access Key ID |
| `S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Secret Access Key |
| `S3_BUCKET` | Bucket name |

And the following Variables (optional):

| Variable Name | Description | Default |
|--------------|-------------|---------|
| `S3_ACCESS_HOST` | Image access domain | Same as `S3_ENDPOINT` |
| `S3_REGION` | Storage region | `auto` |
| `S3_FOLDER` | Image storage path | `images/` |
| `S3_FORCE_PATH_STYLE` | Use path-style URLs | `false` |

### GitHub OAuth Configuration

If you want to log in with your GitHub account:

1. Visit GitHub Settings > Developer settings > OAuth Apps
2. Click **"New OAuth App"**
3. Fill in the application information:
    - **Application name**: Rin Blog
    - **Homepage URL**: Your frontend page address
    - **Authorization callback URL**: `https://your-worker-name.your-account-id.workers.dev/user/github/callback`
4. After creation, obtain the Client ID and Client Secret
5. Add to GitHub Secrets:
    - `RIN_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`
    - `RIN_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`

---

## Troubleshooting

### Deployment Failed

1. Check if GitHub Secrets are configured correctly
2. View the Actions logs for detailed error messages
3. Ensure your Cloudflare account has permissions for Workers, Pages, and D1

### Cannot Log In

1. Confirm that `ADMIN_USERNAME` and `ADMIN_PASSWORD` are set correctly
2. Check Worker logs for authentication errors
3. Clear browser cache and try again

### Database Migration Failed

The deployment script will automatically run database migrations. If it fails:

1. Manually go to Cloudflare Dashboard > D1
2. Find your database and click **"Console"**
3. Manually execute the migration SQL (refer to files in the `server/migrations/` directory)

---

## GitHub Actions Workflows

The repository includes several GitHub Actions workflows that automate testing, building, and deployment:

### CI Workflow (`ci.yml`)
Runs on every push and pull request to check code quality:
- TypeScript type checking
- Code formatting verification
- Build verification

### Test Workflow (`test.yml`)
Runs comprehensive tests on every push and PR:
- **Server tests**: Unit and integration tests using Bun
- **Client tests**: Component tests using Vitest
- **Coverage report**: Uploads coverage to Codecov

### Build Workflow (`build.yml`)
Runs on pushes to main and develop branches:
- Builds both frontend and backend
- Validates build artifacts
- Triggers deployment workflow on success

### Deploy Workflow (`deploy.yml`)
Triggered manually or by build completion:
- Deploys frontend to Cloudflare Pages
- Deploys backend to Cloudflare Workers
- Runs database migrations

### PR Preview
When you create a Pull Request, a preview deployment will be automatically generated so you can test changes before merging.

---

## Updating Your Blog

When a new version is released:

1. Click **"Sync branch"** on your repository page
2. Click **"Update branch"**
3. Deployment will be triggered automatically

Or update manually:

```bash
git checkout main
git pull --ff-only origin main
git push origin main
```

---

## Need Help?

- 📖 [Full Documentation](../../index.md)
- 🐛 [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Bad3r/Rin/issues)
- 💬 [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/Bad3r/Rin/discussions)

Commit message:

docs(roadmap): track pages-worker split follow-up

docs/docs/en/guide/deploy.mdx, after:

# Rin Deployment Guide

This document will guide you through deploying the Rin blog system to Cloudflare from scratch.

## Prerequisites

- A GitHub account
- A Cloudflare account (free tier is sufficient)
- Approximately 10-15 minutes of your time

## Deployment Steps

### Step 1: Fork the Repository

1. Visit the [Rin GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Bad3r/Rin)
2. Click the **"Fork"** button in the top right corner
   ![1000000657](https://github.com/OXeu/Rin/assets/36541432/df3607ca-a8a9-49b8-92ce-6b348afeb13f)
3. Select your personal account, keep the default settings, and click **"Create fork"**

### Obtaining Account ID and API Token

Refer to https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/ci-cd/ to configure the Cloudflare login environment variables required for GitHub Actions.

**Account ID**: Click on any domain you have bound. After entering, you can find the `Account ID` on the right side (you need to scroll down a bit).

**Creating an API Token**: Click your `Profile` icon in the top right > `My Profile` > `API Tokens` > `Create Token`, and select the `Edit Cloudflare Workers` template:
![1000000663](/cloudflare-api-key-en.png)

Save the token after creation.

### Step 2: Configure GitHub Secrets

1. On your forked repository page, click the **"Settings"** tab
2. In the left menu, expand **"Secrets and variables"** and select **"Actions"**
3. Click the **"New repository secret"** button to add the following secrets:

#### Required Secrets

| Secret Name | Value | Description |
|-------------|-------|-------------|
| `CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN` | `ThEApiKeyIsRaNdomStR1ngNearly40CharsLong` | Cloudflare API Token |
| `CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID` | `0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef` | Cloudflare Account ID |
| `JWT_SECRET` | Any random string | JWT signing key |

> **Tip**: `JWT_SECRET` can be any random string of any length, for example: `MySecretKey123!@#`

#### Login Configuration Secrets

Rin currently supports username/password login and GitHub OAuth login. You can choose one or configure both.

**Username/Password Login (Recommended)**

| Secret Name | Value | Description |
|-------------|-------|-------------|
| `ADMIN_USERNAME` | Your desired username | Login username |
| `ADMIN_PASSWORD` | Your desired password | Login password |

**GitHub OAuth Login (Optional)**

If you want to use your GitHub account to log in, please refer to the [Advanced Configuration](#github-oauth-configuration) section to add OAuth configuration.

> **Tip**: Username/password login and GitHub OAuth login can be enabled simultaneously. Users can freely choose their preferred login method on the login page.

### Step 3: Trigger Deployment

1. Go to the **"Actions"** tab in your repository
2. Select the **"Deploy"** workflow on the left
3. Click the **"Run workflow"** button
4. Keep the default branch (main) and click **"Run workflow"**

The deployment process takes approximately 3-5 minutes. You can view the deployment progress on the Actions page.

> **Tip**: The deployment script will automatically configure frontend environment variables; no manual configuration is needed. You can customize the site name, description, etc., in GitHub Variables (optional).

### Step 4: Access Your Blog

After deployment is complete, you can access your blog through the following addresses:

- **Frontend**: `https://rin-client.pages.dev` (or the name you set in `PAGES_NAME`)
- **Backend API**: `https://rin-server.your-account-id.workers.dev`

### Step 5: First Login

1. Visit the frontend page
2. Click the login icon in the top right corner
3. Log in using the `ADMIN_USERNAME` and `ADMIN_PASSWORD` you set in Secrets
4. After logging in, click your avatar to enter the **Profile** page, where you can modify your nickname and upload an avatar

## Publishing Your First Post

1. After logging in, click the **"Write"** button in the top right corner
2. Fill in the article title and content
3. Click the **"Publish"** button

🎉 Congratulations! Your Rin blog has been successfully deployed and your first post has been published!

---

## Advanced Configuration

### Custom Domain

1. Log in to the Cloudflare Dashboard
2. Go to **Pages** > Your Project > **Custom Domains**
3. Follow the prompts to add your domain

### Image Storage Configuration

Rin supports two storage methods: **Cloudflare R2** (recommended) or **S3-compatible storage**.

#### Using Cloudflare R2 (Recommended)

If no S3 environment variables are configured, the deployment script will automatically attempt to use Cloudflare R2. You only need to set the following in GitHub Variables:

| Variable Name | Description | Example |
|--------------|-------------|---------|
| `R2_BUCKET_NAME` | R2 bucket name | `my-blog-images` |

The deployment script will automatically construct the R2 endpoint and access host. If you want to use a custom domain for images, you can additionally set:

| Variable Name | Description | Example |
|--------------|-------------|---------|
| `S3_ACCESS_HOST` | Image access domain (optional) | `https://images.myblog.com` |

#### Using S3-Compatible Storage

If you need to use other S3-compatible storage (such as AWS S3, MinIO, etc.), you need to fully configure the following Secrets:

| Secret Name | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `S3_ENDPOINT` | S3 endpoint address |
| `S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID` | Access Key ID |
| `S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Secret Access Key |
| `S3_BUCKET` | Bucket name |

And the following Variables (optional):

| Variable Name | Description | Default |
|--------------|-------------|---------|
| `S3_ACCESS_HOST` | Image access domain | Same as `S3_ENDPOINT` |
| `S3_REGION` | Storage region | `auto` |
| `S3_FOLDER` | Image storage path | `images/` |
| `S3_FORCE_PATH_STYLE` | Use path-style URLs | `false` |

### GitHub OAuth Configuration

If you want to log in with your GitHub account:

1. Visit GitHub Settings > Developer settings > OAuth Apps
2. Click **"New OAuth App"**
3. Fill in the application information:
    - **Application name**: Rin Blog
    - **Homepage URL**: Your frontend page address
    - **Authorization callback URL**: `https://your-worker-name.your-account-id.workers.dev/user/github/callback`
4. After creation, obtain the Client ID and Client Secret
5. Add to GitHub Secrets:
    - `RIN_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`
    - `RIN_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`

---

## Troubleshooting

### Deployment Failed

1. Check if GitHub Secrets are configured correctly
2. View the Actions logs for detailed error messages
3. Ensure your Cloudflare account has permissions for Workers, Pages, and D1

### Cannot Log In

1. Confirm that `ADMIN_USERNAME` and `ADMIN_PASSWORD` are set correctly
2. Check Worker logs for authentication errors
3. Clear browser cache and try again

### Database Migration Failed

The deployment script will automatically run database migrations. If it fails:

1. Manually go to Cloudflare Dashboard > D1
2. Find your database and click **"Console"**
3. Manually execute the migration SQL (refer to files in the `server/migrations/` directory)

---

## GitHub Actions Workflows

The repository includes several GitHub Actions workflows that automate testing, building, and deployment:

### CI Workflow (`ci.yml`)
Runs on every push and pull request to check code quality:
- TypeScript type checking
- Code formatting verification
- Build verification

### Test Workflow (`test.yml`)
Runs comprehensive tests on every push and PR:
- **Server tests**: Unit and integration tests using Bun
- **Client tests**: Component tests using Vitest
- **Coverage report**: Uploads coverage to Codecov

### Build Workflow (`build.yml`)
Runs on pushes to main and develop branches:
- Builds both frontend and backend
- Validates build artifacts
- Triggers deployment workflow on success

### Deploy Workflow (`deploy.yml`)
Triggered manually or by build completion:
- Deploys frontend to Cloudflare Pages
- Deploys backend to Cloudflare Workers
- Runs database migrations

### PR Preview
When you create a Pull Request, a preview deployment will be automatically generated so you can test changes before merging.

---

## Updating Your Blog

When a new version is released:

1. Click **"Sync branch"** on your repository page
2. Click **"Update branch"**
3. Deployment will be triggered automatically

Or update manually:

```bash
git checkout main
git pull --ff-only origin main
git push origin main
```

---

> Current deployment remains `Worker + Assets`. Future split to `Pages + Worker` is tracked in [issue #14](https://github.com/Bad3r/Rin/issues/14).

---

## Need Help?

- 📖 [Full Documentation](../../index.md)
- 🐛 [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Bad3r/Rin/issues)
- 💬 [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/Bad3r/Rin/discussions)
